## 67-272: Chess Camp Phase 5 Starter ##

This is starter code for the course project in 67-272: Application Design and Development.  This code has basic views and controllers required for phase 3 and it passes all cucumber tests.  In addition, it has all the models created and tested as specified in phase 4.

Students can use this as a base to work off of in phase 5 -- HOWEVER, the basic design, color scheme, images and the like must be modified from the tepid design provided here.  (BTW, the text on the static pages like home, about, and contact are purposefully snarky -- you would never use this in a real app and we expect you to modify it to something more appropriate.)  We will reiterate this warning in phase 5 but we are saying it now as well to maximize the opportunities to get the word out: **if students stay with the CSS, images and text used here they can expect to lose 10 points on their phase 5 grade.**  (If you want to have fun with this project you have to make it your own and style it as you see fit.)

To set this up, clone this repository, run the `bundle install` command to ensure you have all the needed gems and then create the database with `rake db:migrate`.  If you want to populate the system with fictitious, but somewhat realistic data (similar to the data given in the spreadsheets in phase 1), you can run the `rake db:populate` command.  The populate script will create:
- 100 families
- over 200 students
- over 35 camps

Many objects are created with some element of randomness so you will get slightly different results each time it is run.  However, instructors and users are fixed.  All users in the system have a password of 'secret'.  In terms of users there are two admins (Alex and Mark) and four instructor-level users (our four Head TAs).  The username for each is their first name in all lowercase.

Instructions for what needs to be done in this phase of the project can be found in the phase 5 write-up found on the [67-272 course site](http://cmu-is-272.org/projects/5).


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Special Additions:

+ Every time the guest homepage is refreshed it shows a new chess quote (randomized function)

+ Admins can see balance due for each student registered for a camp by going to that camp's page
+ Family payment report can be accessed through a family's detail page
+ Aggregate financial report is on admin dashboard
+ Camp payment report can be accessed through the dashboard or through a camp's detail page
+ Family payment report only shows payments for the current year

+ I wrote my own routes to get to the reports since the narrative implied they were meant to be printed out. I thought that creating a new web page would be easier for admins to print and read than trying to find it at the bottom of a camp/family page or dashboard.

- In the admin dashboard the pagination acts weirdly. For example, in 'Under-filled Camps' I'm pulling camps out of a much larger paginated list, and I think the reason there aren't that many results per page is because it paginates based on the original 10 results per page, and if 9 are taken away it doesn't update.
  The same occurs with 'Under-staffed Camps'. If you're testing to see whether specific results are present, they probably are, you just need to go forward a few pages to find them.
  A solution is to not paginate them at all, but I am despite this issue since I tried to design a more spatially concise dashboard.

+ Guests can go to a camp's page and see its curriculum description.

+ The default instructor image has a sweet mustache. I am aware that not all instructors are men, however there is no gender attribute for instructor, so I can't change the default image based on gender. If I could I totally would though.


